Update istio 1.5 documentation (#9118)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/service-mesh/03-01-istio-setup-in-kyma.md

---

Istio in Kyma is installed with the help of the `istioctl` tool.
The tool is driven by a configuration file containing an instance of [IstioOperator](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) custom resource.
There are two configuration files — one for local installation on Minikube and one for cluster installations.
The configurations are customized for Kyma and are stored in the `resources/istio/files` directory.

## Istio components

This list shows the available Istio components and the components enabled in Kyma:

| Component | Enabled |
| :--- | :---: |
| Istiod | ✅ |
| Pilot | ⛔ |
| Policy | ⛔ |
| Telemetry | ⛔ |	
| Citadel | ⛔ |	
| Node Agent | ⛔ |	
| Galley | ⛔ |	
| Sidecar Injector | ⛔️ |	
| Ingress Gateway | ✅️ |
| Egress Gateway | ⛔️ |
| CNI | ⛔️ |
| Grafana | ⛔️ |
| Prometheus | ⛔️ |
| Tracing | ⛔️ |
| Kiali | ⛔️ |

> >**NOTE:** In Istio 1.5, separate components like Pilot or Sidecar Injector are replaced by Istiod, a single binary. You can find the details [in the ugrade notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/upgrade-notes/#control-plane-restructuring).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** In Istio 1.5, separate components like Pilot or Sidecar Injector are replaced by Istiod, a single binary. You can find the details [in the upgrade notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/upgrade-notes/#control-plane-restructuring).
```

> >*NOTE*: In Istio 1.5, separate components like Pilot or Sidecar Injector are replaced by a single binary - Istiod. Details can be found [in this section of upgrade notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/upgrade-notes/#control-plane-restructuring).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** In Istio 1.5, separate components like Pilot or Sidecar Injector are replaced by Istiod, a single binary. You can find the details [in the ugrade notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/upgrade-notes/#control-plane-restructuring).
```

## Kyma-specific configuration

These configuration changes are applied to customize Istio for use with Kyma:

- Automatic sidecar injection is enabled by default, excluding the `istio-system` and `kube-system` Namespaces.
- New resource requests for Istio sidecars are introduced: CPU: `20m`, memory: `32Mi`.
- New resource limits for Istio sidecars are introduced: CPU: `200m`, memory: `128Mi`.
- [Mutual TLS (mTLS)](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/security/#mutual-tls-authentication) is enabled cluster-wide in a STRICT mode.
- Global tracing is set to use the Zipkin installation provided by Kyma.
- Ingress Gateway is expanded to handle ports `80` and `443` for local Kyma deployments.
- DestinationRules are created by default, which disables mTLS for the `kubernetes.default.svc.cluster.local` service. In local (Minikube) installation mTLS is also disabled for
`istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc.cluster.local` service.
- The `istio-sidecar-injector` Mutating Webhook Configuration is patched to exclude Gardener resources in the kube-system namespace and the timeout is set to 10 seconds.

> - All Istio components have decreased resources requests and limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All Istio components have decreased resource requests and limits.
```

| Component | Enabled |
| :--- | :---: |
| Istiod | ✅ |
| Gateways | ✅ |
| Grafana | ⛔️ |
| Prometheus | ⛔️ |
| Tracing | ⛔️ |
| Kiali | ⛔️ |

> >*NOTE*: In Istio 1.5, separate components are replaced by a single binary - Istiod. However, to ensure a smooth transition to the new version, Citadel, Policy and Telemetry still are deployed to the cluster.

Reviewer 3: I would leave the note, but still list the components in the table above.

## Kyma-specific configuration

> These configuration changes are applied to customize Istio for use with Kyma:

Reviewer 3: True, but it is set by default in Istio
```
Only the Ingress Gateway is enabled.
```

It is no longer a `Kyma-specific configuration`. It is by default and doesn't need any configuration at all:
```
- The [Secret Discovery Service](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret.html#secret-discovery-service-sds) is enabled in the Ingress Gateway.
```

There are no exceptions in mtls config.
```
- [Mutual TLS (mTLS)](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/security/#mutual-tls-authentication) is enabled cluster-wide with the exception of the Istio Control Plane.
```

The resources are actually set to CPU: 200m, memory: 128Mi in limits and CPU: 20m, memory: 32Mi in requests
```
New resource limits for Istio sidecars are introduced: CPU: `100m`, memory: `128Mi`.
```

The DRs are created after the installation; DR for istio-ingressgateway is created only for minikube and DR for apiserver is created always
```
DestinationRules are created by default, which disables mTLS for the `istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc.cluster.local` service.
```

Reviewer 3: There are also a few kyma-specific configurations not mentioned here.

- adjusted (decreased) resources for all Istio components 
- PILOT_HTTP10 flag set in Pilot (istiod) component environment variables
- `disablePolicyChecks` set to false (to enable old Policy checks)
- telemetry configured to use v1 version
